# Quickdream
Clay Market is a full-stack MERN app created to explore the capabilities of AI image generation and OpenAI's public API in general. 

⛔ **The app is currently being developed and isn't quite at the minimum viable product stage, but work is being done daily to get there.** 

<p align="center">
(Demo image coming soon)
</p>

**Link to project:** *Coming soon!*
## How It's Made:

**Tech used:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, Vite, MUI, Express, MongoDB


The front end is created with `React`, `MUI`, and `CSS`. `MUI` was mainly used for form inputs, buttons, and icons.
The back end uses `Express` as the foundation for the server, and `MongoDB` + `Mongoose` for storing the application's data, while
`bcrypt` is used to hash/salt user passwords before being stored in the database. The `OpenAI` API library is used to generate images from a prompt that are then uploaded to `cloudinary` and stored.
Lastly, after signing up, users are given a default user avatar that is generated by the `identicon` package dynamically based on their username.
Authentication is handled by the `Passport` local strategy.
## Lessons Learned:
I approached this project with a new methodology in mind. Rather than ideating and designing pages or components, I started the design process by thinking of the features I wanted to include in the project, and designing the application around them. After I had a rough wireframe, I developed in cycles, tweaking a feature's design, developing the feature, tweaking the next feature's design, developing the next feature. 

This feature-first approach has been tremendously helpful in keeping me focused and my ideas grounded. Following this approach, I only create components or new pages when a certain feature warrants them. This is in contrast to my usual practice of building components I think I'll need and then later shoving them into the app somewhere just so they don't go to waste.

This approach also helped create a clear, linear path of development, as it was easy to rank features by their criticality and prioritize building the most critical features first.